well I'm here right now at the LCS
studio with Roman Bazar I think I got
that right right perfect okay yeah
probably not perfect but either way so
I've heard much about you from seeing
you all over the European broadcasting
on stuff but you want to talk to me a
little bit about what your next step is
my next step is here in na with optic
gaming actually so I got drafted kind of
two months ago now to basically take
care and create the whole League of
Legend business part for optic Oh
fantastic and so yeah maybe you can take
me through how those conversations win
why you decided to come to na LCS why
optic you know just kind of take me
through that whole process so I was
manager for unicorns of love have been
manager for them for two years in half
it was obviously the best job in the
world and had a lot of freedom and so on
and one September object came to me
saying eh we're looking for someone to
back our to back our application towards
riot because you heard like you had like
maybe 100 people applying to get a slot
and then at the the enron was maybe I
don't know 20 or something and one of
the point riot was really pushing for is
they needed someone with a bit of flawed
experience so basically optic came to me
and say do you want to come on board
we're gonna fully trust you or you can
have a bit of cash to create everything
and help us to build a project so I went
directly to my CEO at unique of the
floors and I told him look yes I have
this amazing opportunity can I at least
fly with them to present the
applications riot it went really really
well
we got the slot so I just have in
account yeah and so optic is a really
big eSports organization but probably
very unknown to League of Legends fans
so for the league fans that are watching
maybe you can sort of explain what optic
is where it came from sort of the story
of the organization so I actually had
absolutely no clue who optic was when
they applied so I had no pressure you
know when I met them and when they came
to me I but I googled a bit and I mean
their twitter account alone is as big as
the league official account
I think Lowell is at 4 million optical
at 3.2 so in terms of rich marketing
slash business it speaks to me it's
really big and really interesting
I basically slowly discovered the
organization toward last month's I met
Hector which is kind of the face of
uptick I met a couple of people
backstage the owner of the business guys
it's big and they are so efficient when
it comes to creating content engaging
engaging fans and they are now present
in all games we have a csgo organization
obviously every Call of Duty
organization gives the floors maybe a
couple of fighting are gonna come as
they have to tattoo as we have overwatch
and then a League of Legends so all
right so then you know what is from your
understanding what what is object really
hoping to accomplish in the League of
Legends scene and what is it looking to
build as far as I understand as far as I
would like to achieve is we want to
create a brand really big and
entertaining brand and we want to we
want to take people on a journey through
LCS basically like showing them a lot of
what's happening backstage showing them
how to train the guys showing them what
kind of emotion and feelings can
appropriate or go through when they are
competing either on stage or outside of
the stage what daily life of a pro gamer
how do you impact their health and this
kind of stuff so yeah basic and they're
just so good at creating content like
for example we just released a video but
it felt to me the guy was just walking
around took a couple of shots and just
left and then I see the video online two
days after and I'm like wow like like I
would have needed a full week of
brainstorm and stuff to create something
that good so yeah they all super super
talented yeah I want to talk to you a
little bit back to yourself because I'm
sure a lot of you fans you were such a
big figure in the EU LCS and are sad to
see you among other players join na LCS
so talk to me a little bit about the
decision to leave EU and come to North
America and you know what your thought
process was there the challenge was just
you too attractive like like the
franchise system makes it even more
enjoyable because you are kind of a lot
to fail you can try as much as you want
and you will still be there next year
the budget obviously are more important
why because whatever you build right now
is still going to be there next year the
way you talk to sponsor
is more interesting to where you build
players you build management is to me
more challenging and yeah it's it's a
challenge definitely and DNA market like
everything is bigger in na from cars
from drinks from food from people
everything and actually any kind of
stuff you create is gonna be hundreds of
thousands of views so it's a bit more
challenging and interesting to me and
the way is they create think and build
entertainment is really different than
Europe
why because any kind of content you
create in Europe you have to decide am I
going to go for English or local
language if you go English yeah you
you're gonna have to fight vs. na and UK
but if you go local you can only
activate a specific local market were in
the u.s. you just create anything in
English and literally the world is yours
so it's way more interesting and way
more challenging and on the other hand
because they are so experienced with any
entertainment stuff they have investors
behind which know how to create so optic
for example you might start to see optic
absolutely everywhere in the mainstream
in six months why because they have this
expertise where in Europe is going to be
our and that's going to be interesting
if you goes to franchise will see
Football Club comment board because as
far as I understand that the goal of
riot on the long term to have sports
organization kind of pushing into
mainstream eSport but how is it gonna go
because I believe the Football Club I'll
be traumatized at the moment the PSG
example kind of sucked yeah so Schalke
you'll fear needs to perform next year
so the franchise system will be able to
drag some people from sports yeah now I
also know that when you were in Europe I
feel like I saw you in a lot of big
costumes and looking very very unique
sna fans were very confused by what was
happening but there's this pink outfit
running around should we expect to see
you in green outfits now I know optics
whole lines the green wall so we're just
gonna see you in a giant brick green
wall kind of deal absolutely like
something's gonna happen so uh what
allowed me to be goofy and half naked on
stage with unique on the floor was
success obviously because if you go half
naked on stage and you're losing it's
just cringe but if you're winning
whatever you do is gonna be funny so at
the end of the day if we win yeah you're
gonna see a bit more extreme stuff but
even if we don't like
not gonna hide myself I like I like to
make my player laugh I call it shame
training because they they are young
they're gonna have to be on stage in
front maybe in front of 40 50 60
thousand people millions of people
watching them online so they have to be
trained to have people staring at them
and judging them so the easiest way I
found this if I dress goofy people are
going to look at me and they're gonna
forget after one hour of sitting next to
me they're gonna forget everyone is
always looking at it so it's kind of a
shame training and also love it
I can I can draw a lot of energy from it
so my goal for example for first bit is
just to be top forum because top 4 means
you have a stage you have people meaning
I can cook the crowd I can take the
crowd and offer it to my guy saying look
that's real drug man like screaming your
name and stuff that's what you want aim
for yeah
well let's talk a little bit about who
is joining you here so it's hard for me
to keep track of in the offseason what
is confirmed what is it what you guys
have announced what you haven't I know
that Zabu teen is announced yes yes yeah
so talk to me a little bit about him cuz
I met this guy a long time ago several
years ago and he was casting now he's
gonna be here coaching so what what is
his involvement how did that happen um I
picked him up because actually he has
never been a coach and I like it I like
that because he's gonna bring we have
this amazing opportunity to have the
full trust of our management she came to
me saying Roman whatever you're gonna do
we trust you and then I go to the butene
I pick him because I know whatever is
gonna do is gonna be really new no one
is a pure mind when it comes to training
and is also super clever it is come and
is also coming from a real job meaning
he used to work in Bank / finance so he
knows how to wake up in the morning how
to go train for the full day and how to
behave like a real like a real grown-up
adult which is gonna be really important
I believe on the long run for a sport it
is a professional coming from the pro
world with a lot of good ideas about the
game with a lot of experience because
through casting if you do your job
properly you need to learn a lot of
what's happening maybe it's going to
like a bit of really efficient
day-to-day
how to train but I can
these kind of stuff and we are going to
be surrounded by experienced people as
well to make sure everything is going
smooth and I know probably as we're
filming this the whole roster hasn't
been announced our lineup isn't out
there yet hopefully hopefully we find
out soon but what has his involvement
been what does your involvement been in
sort of scouting players and trying to
figure out who to pick up so offseason
was extremely interesting in North
America because in Europe the market is
kind of smaller with less money and in
Europe I know all of them I know the
managers I know we're the right people
and other players and and I used to work
with GP which could Scout efficiently
who is good or not and chachi and Elise
so that was kind of easy to do the
offseason na was a fool you jungle and I
jungle is the right word I believe
because I had to just introduce myself
to all the managers you have a lot of
agents working in the market right now
which is also really interesting
surprises I insane so I can tell you
something is optic has the smallest
budget when it comes to the players
right now which why because when we kind
of when we forecasted it in in September
and so on that was a big budget of money
in the table that should have been
enough to cover a really solid offseason
the market kind of got out of control
but I still believe we did an extremely
good job because at one point we had to
take the decision do we inject more cash
or not and we had this money available
but we already had some really really
good players good humans like we had
really good connection with them and
they were all ready to work the way we
want them to work and I'm really really
looking forward to start working with
this roster because there are good
humans and we're going to be able to
build things on the long term winsome
because that's something people forget
is League of Legends is not a tournament
it's a championship and the championship
takes a lot of time and a successful
team in January might not be the one
going to Wales in August and we see that
again and again and again and the team
we is tell me
Ian's budget to buy players might not be
the one going to Wales in August oh it's
all gonna be about how they train how's
it click and I believe the five guys we
recruited are gonna click really really
beautifully yeah I'm so glad you brought
that up because the budget side because
one of the things that I'm trying to
talk about with all the different owners
only because I've heard things behind
the scenes is that in the past and North
America you know I feel like you could
basically judge a roster by how good did
somebody scout how good were they you
know how attractive was the brand of
players etc for the first time I get the
inkling that this offseason a lot of the
roster decisions you are making are
based off of or you know the NA LCS is
making are based off of budgets and how
much is somebody willing to spend you
know everybody has to paid by Steve
memes and you can sort of look at the
all-star talent on the North America on
you know Team Liquid then you have teams
like golden Guardians that I think are
picking up more rookie or you know sort
of underrated talent so yeah how would
you sort of describe the offseason in
terms of and sort of the decision making
teams are making around budgets and
where to get value and all that kind of
thing twas games of throne literally it
was it all started with ten teams
battling four maybe five six seven guys
mostly imports obviously because you
need to get your inputs first it's like
a puzzle but you have to import pieces
which you're gonna have to use because
it's North America and there is a
problem in North America around scouting
talent which is why scouting runs for
example is so interesting and important
it could have been even more efficient
to have that like three weeks ago but
timing and so it's gonna be better next
year but yeah so because na needs those
import so bad the beginning of the games
of Thrones start with ten team fighting
for six to seven guys mostly imports and
you need to log those two because if
they are made or but if they are jungle
or top your whole team is going to be
different right then you have to check
the rest of the puzzle pieces so you
have those four a four eight players
then you have to fill with triple-a
players and you have to fill with
double-a players kind of and the problem
is the market blew up with those with
those four four five six guys
and whereas what are they gonna go who
is gonna hire them but as soon as I
locked in a team you can't even sign him
yeah because the sign in season is a
week after this kind of battle start
right so that was interesting
ten teams four four five guys then as
soon as they are allocated you have a
lot of guys who the team certainly came
stronger and then as soon as you touched
to feel whenever so it started Tuesday
two weeks ago whenever a team was
announcing someone you had two ways to
take it as a team it was like oh my god
said just sign my account she such a
good pick
I wanted Mac young but from a player
perspective what do you see is oh
there's only nine slots left and
Strangler Oh only eight slots left
Oh sevens lost oh and suddenly all the
big prices on the table because you're
dealing with agents but the agents have
to go to your players I'm gonna get you
my money but the players I I want a job
because I know what's gonna happen
anything for days I'm not signed so
problem is I'm gonna have to go to
moments that basement and with there's
no more Academy kind of because before
the economy was battling to to get an
LCS slot now Academy is not going to do
a lot for the next year so is there a
sense to spend a lot of money on your
Academy or do you really want to use it
yeah to build a long-term so the market
was a bit crazy so yes so from 10 for
forums and from 10 to 50 but as soon as
he start to pack everyone is fighting
for the to Street last players and
suddenly so hi sorry lost standing sorry
hi sorry it was really interesting it
was toast games of throne in two three
hours yeah everything was different and
actually really enjoyed to kind of talk
and business we had with Steve we had
with Andy where's with all those people
because at the end of the day managers
and coaches are here for the long term
because in six months that's why I'm I'm
always trying to be as honest as
possible and not to fuck up with people
why because in six months we're still
we're still gonna work to grow in one
year as well in two years as well
players are gonna go from one region to
another the management is staying most
of the times
oh that was crazy man you couldn't still
you couldn't sleep if you were sleeping
for hours you were waking up Skype was
like ten messages email is do only by
this guy do you understand this guy do
you wanna but luckily we already had
those our five guys and we were talking
with him negotiating contract that was
amazing I loved it do you think fans
should consider budget as a dimension of
what these rosters are because yeah cuz
I mean I think oftentimes I look on
right and people just say like what is
this roster and it's sort of like well
this roster is very different than some
of the other rosters you're seeing
because there's probably a different
level of financial involvement like
imagine a team where one guy's paid a
million and the rest is paid hundred
fifty K yeah like in terms of mindset in
terms of training it's like in a company
it's exactly like real life like in an
open space when you do technically kind
of the same job but he's paying ten
times more than you it's better be ten
times better as you because if you're
winning as per usual everything is
smooth the day you're losing all those
little troubles are gonna pop up and how
do you stay motivated when you sign a
three-year contract giving you couple of
hundred thousand per months if you start
failing you know you can just rest why
because it's really hard to fire you and
you have those long I honestly don't
understand any kind of contract more
longer than a year even less when I see
the salaries I believe as a player right
now your main strength is to be able to
put this little Twitter in November guys
I'm a free agent
yeah like battle for me like for his
upon reckless just sign to me is one of
the most amazing ADC in the world and I
believe as much as I understand to move
from a marketing / PR perspective I
believe if cyclists was able to put
tomorrow on the Twitter I'm a free agent
just to see
yes Europe is gonna be really mad boy
just for him to know his real value just
for him to say okay Europe you see my
value in the market
hey Patrick hey fanatic that's my value
in the market give me a bit more money
sure sure well let's let's kind of go
back to optik itself how is object going
to get to worlds this year by training
as everyone by training efficiently by
giving our
based on the long run and that's gonna
be hard because that's what's hard for
any team it's not hard to perform in
January or March it's hard to face
defeat one after another it's hard to
win on the long run and not get cocky
and not forget how to train it's hard to
go through May when if you're not
attending msi what are you gonna do for
three weeks do you kind of train
yourself by going on holidays or do you
go Korea and you might burn out it's
it's a lot of long-term decision and I
believe once again the way management
are gonna take care of their players
even more in the franchise system is
going to be fascinating is it will do
all the old gods old people gonna
prevail as the new teams with NBA
background when it comes to training and
so on do something like when you check
echo fox maybe not but maybe is it gonna
change stuff maybe the golden are gonna
bring something maybe it's gonna be
really really interesting here I believe
na from a pure player perspective has
never been a stacked like on any Lane
you have your big names like me to build
for I've heard that before and then a
week two of worlds comes along and then
all by I hope skate crash so but I'm
excited I'm excited to see what what
changes this year is there anything that
you want to say to any of the potential
fans out there that are looking at that
optic they've heard about this green
wall thing maybe they can become a part
of it anything at all to any of the NA
fans out there that are looking forward
to seeing what optic can do next year
just just thank you welcome to most of
the optic fans who never heard of league
of legend welcome to League of Legends
we're more than happy to have you on
board and let's show the world how good
we are very good well thank you so much
for the interview looking here to seeing
what your team can do yes next year and
what costumes you'll be wearing for
everyone else you can check out the rest
of my coverage of all things eSports
right here on my youtube channel thank
you everyone for the support I hope you
enjoyed that interview I really
appreciate all the support that I have
gotten from folks over the past couple
of weeks
if you'd like to support me you can do
so over at Travis Khafre comm slash
support